Suspected Java bugs:

Linux, Sun 1.2.2/1.3beta/1.3betarefresh, Blackdown 1.2.2RC4: 
   ShowDice dialog sometimes moves from upper right corner to upper 
   left corner.  ShowLegion dialog sometimes pops up in upper left 
   corner instead of over mouse position.  These problems don't happen 
   with ibmjdk118.  Seems to be fixed in Solaris 1.3 final.  Try Linux 
   JDK 1.3 final.

Win98, JDK1.3: setLocation() to keep ShowLegion, ShowMasterHex
   dialogs from displaying past the bottom or right edge of the
   screen isn't working.  Problem with screen size detection in
   Windows JDK. (Possibly only after screen resolution has been
   changed?) Works fine on other JDKs.


Current programming bugs:

Linux, ibmjdk118: 2 possible carries, ogre was highlighted as a carry
   target, but clicking on it did not apply damage and wasted the
   carry.

Concession timing.  If both players want to concede, the non-phasing
   player (usually?) has the right to concede first.  Concessions
   aren't allowed in the middle of strikes.  Etc.
Striking continues after concession, until the normal time to check for
   creature (and then player) death.

Linux, ibmjdk118: Drift damage was not applied to a cyclops.

Linux, ibmjdk118: Legion with angel in tower did not immediately
   have tower teleport moves highlighted, as if player had already
   teleported.  "Undo All Moves" fixed the problem.
   
Linux, ibmjdk118: Angel summoned into battle can move on top of
   any of its allies which has not moved yet, because their hexes 
   are highlighted.

Win98, jdk1.3rc1: Tried to strike own creature!

Solaris, jdk1.3: Sometimes moving a chit onto its own hex in battle
   eliminates that chit's movement options.  "Undo last move" works.

Solaris, jdk1.3: Mutual elimination, with defender's titan killed.
   Got the message "Legion XXXX is eliminated" twice for the
   attacking legion, once for the defender.  OK when just attacking
   titan is killed.

Solaris, jdk1.3: Square (red, black, or white) in NW corner of board 
   and map.  Partial marker?  Doesn't appear on board when 
   board.loadInitialMarkerImages() isn't called.  Doesn't appear
   when Chit,paint() is commented out.  Is repainted when board is 
   minimized and restored.  In battle, it sometimes looks like the 
   color of the attacker's markers, but is sometimes two-toned, and 
   sometimes changes color.

Win98, jdk1.3: Bad repaint onto a potential carry target with no carries.
Solaris, jdk1.3: Removed dead creature was half painted.  Went away 
   after a minimize/restore.

Solaris, jdk1.3: Ranger in bramble rangestrikes behemoth in bramble,
   titan range 3.  Target number is 4.  Shouldn't it be 5?  (1 penalty
   for each bramble)  Check rules.

