$Id$

FREQUENTLY ASKED QUESTIONS


Q.  Why does the game sometimes prompt me twice for recruits?

A.  Look closer.  It's asking for the recruit and then for the recruiter(s).
    Do you want to recruit that cyclops with your other cyclops, or with
    your two gargoyles?  If like most people you don't care, then turn on 
    "auto pick recruiter" and the computer will just pick one for you.


Q.  How to I make a legion spin around in a circle back to the original
    hex when I roll a 6? 

A.  The second click needs to be inside the hex, but outside the legion 
    marker.  If you click inside the legion marker then you cancel the
    pending move and try to move the legion again.  I know this requires
    a lot of coordination for a turn-based boardgame, but I can't think
    of a better way to do this interface.


Q.  What does the Antialias option do?

A.  It makes the graphics a bit smoother (look closely at the hexside edges
    while you turn it on and off), but this takes some CPU cycles.  I
    recommend turning it on if you have a fast computer and leaving it off
    if you have a slow computer. 


Q.  When is network play going to be done?

A.  Probably about April 2002.  No guarantees -- real life sometimes
    gets in the way of fun programming projects.

    It's a lot of work, because I want to do it the right away (a 
    language-neutral, simple socket protocol with a server that enforces
    the rules rather than trusting the clients) rather than just slapping
    an quick RMI layer on the existing game.


Q.  Why is the AI so dumb?

A.  Nobody's doing much with the AI right now.  I'll start working
    on it seriously again after the network game is finished.


Q.  What's the difference between SimpleAI and MinimaxAI and RandomAI?

A.  SimpleAI does a straightforward one-ply lookahead for MasterBoard
    moves.  It works fairly well.  MinimaxAI uses a more general minimax 
    algorithm that in theory should be stronger (but slower), but it's 
    still very buggy so it's not recommended for non-developer use.  
    RandomAI just chooses one of the available AIs at random -- this 
    will be a more interesting option when there are multiple viable 
    alternatives.


Q.  What's the 'Load External Variant' button do? 

A.  The maps and recruit trees and stuff used to be hardcoded.  Romain
    has recently pulled them out into data files, which means that you
    can customize parts of the game by making new data files instead of
    changing code.  If that interests you, see FileFormat.txt and
    Variant-HOWTO.txt.  The ExtTitan, Badlands, and TitanPlus variants 
    are now included.

    "Load External Variant" allows for loading an external variant
    (not supplied with the game), whereas the pop-up menu allows
    for loading one of the standard variant (supplied with the game).


Q.  Why doesn't the 'Load External Variant' work ?

A.  It does, but for some yet unknown reason, if you select an external
    variant first, it will not be acknowledged. You need to load it
    twice, or to select something in the pop-up menu first.


Q.  How can I help?

A.  Bug reports are great.  Detailed bug reports delivered via the 
    SourceForge bug tracker are even better.  
    
    If you want to contribute code, make sure that you're starting 
    from the latest source (so pull from CVS).  Please read and follow
    CodingStandards.txt so your code is easier to merge.  Join and
    send mail to the dev mailing list at SF so we know what you're
    up to.  Beyond that, just code whatever you want and send 
    patches when it works.

