Log first recruit of each creature type, and when each is exhausted.

Add different debug logging levels.  Maybe use JLog or some other
   free logging package instead of reinventing the wheel, if the 
   footprint is small enough.

Auto move should take mulligans if available.  Titans should teleport
   to towers and grab warlocks more often.  Consider recruit scarcity
   (last gargoyle more valuable than troll).  Don't leave non-moved
   legion highlighted.  Force moving something, starting with least
   valuable stack if none want to move.  Consider terrain when
   deciding whether to fight.  Don't cheat and peek at the opposing 
   stack unless all stacks are visible or some cheat option is set.
   Have stacks figure moves in some priority order, not just legion order.
   Randomize order in which moves are actually made to avoid giving away 
   titan location.  Consider safety of moved-to hex.  Add some value to 
   flying and rangestrike to creature recruiting scores, or just make up 
   a good value for each creature type.  Don't give as much value for 
   recruiting creatures less powerful than the ones already there, 
   especially if already 6 high.  Give some value to sitting in native 
   terrain.  Get scrub snacks out of nearby opponent's good recruiting 
   terrain, and into blocking positions.

Auto split should not split when it's dangerous to do so.

Add redo.

Scale Theodore S. Hetke's chits down to 60x60.  Fix text.  Add stars and
   bolts.

Movement die should be displayed immediately when enabled, rather than
   waiting until the next turn, unless no movement die has been rolled
   yet.  Same for battledice.

StatusScreen should be updated immediately upon a player death.

Make MasterBoard and MasterHex pluggable.  Integrate David Lum's
   Java2D MasterBoard graphics as an option.

Add a way to show each player's remaining legion markers outside PickMarker.

Centralize scale handling.  Add a global rescale option.
Scale should change when windows are resized.

Need to be able to undo an auto recruit of a reinforcement in battle.
   Or else turn off auto recruit for reinforcements.

Should be able to undo moves until an engagement is resolved.
   If no engagements, should be able to undo recruits, then
   undo moves.  "Done with Engagements" shouldn't be necessary.
   Basically, phases should be less rigid.

Add an option to show information about MasterBoard hexes when a
   mover is selected, such as whether that legion can recruit
   there, and how many die rolls from that hex would let the
   legion recruit next turn.

Add allow the ability to replace any creature in a legion with a
   different creature type or "unknown," for PBEM and debug.


Change more modal dialogs to use a factory that returns a value,
   rather than a public constructor and a call to a mutator.
   This should reduce global access from dialogs to game objects,
   and allow dialog results to be more easily replicated by network
   and computer dialog replacements.  All parameters passed into
   the dialogs should eventually be read-only or clones, with all
   changes to game state done by the caller.

Add test main() to remaining dialogs.

Add "no 2s or 5s" mulligan option.  (Per player, or global, or both?)

Add auto-BattleMap-move option.
Add auto-strike option.
Add auto-flee / auto-concede option.
Add auto-play option.

Add ability to specify computer opponents in GetPlayers.  Also a
   way to pick which AI subclass each uses.

Skip strikes that can't matter?

Add keyboard legion selection?
Add toolbars?
Add tooltips?

Highlight selected legion better.
Highlight teleport and normal moves differently.
Differently-highlight hexes where a legion could move if
   a friendly stack were not already there?

Color code StatusScreen better.

Add the ability to change the creature type of a creature in a legion,
   and to specify "unknown" as a creature type, for tracking PBEM
   games.

All GUI method calls need to be moved out of non-GUI classes.
Split GUI classes from model classes.

Move GUI/client classes and model/server classes into separate
   packages.  Make all possible public classes package private.
   Document remaining public classes, which are those that
   need to be included in the network protocol.

Add a ShowAllRecruits window that displays all recruits by terrain
   type.

Add SetupBattle class, to allow setting up standalone battles.

Fix concession timing.

Client-server networking.

Chat window.

